---
layout: post
client:  "Songbird Floristry"
title: Songbird Floristry 
siteurl: https://songbirdfloristry.com/
className: site
categories:
- all
- site
tags:
- drupal
- sass
- gulp
- ux/ui
- drupal
- e-commerce
- fed
- dev
permalink: songbird-floristry/
teaser-img: /post-images/songbird/teaser.jpg
post-img: /post-images/songbird/post.jpg
teaser: A Elegant E-Commerce Planning Tool All Your Special Events
---
Songbird Floristry came to us looking for an e-commerce site to sell floral arrangements for weddings and other events. But they wanted something more than a normal e-commerce site. They wanted a highly customized planning tool that would help users decide the types and quantity of floral arrangements they would need for their event based on style preferences, guest count and more. Since we relish opportunities to create novel solutions for our clients problems, this site was a pleasure to build.


<h3>A USER FRIENDLY TOOL</h3>
The heart of this site is the detailed floral Planning Tool. The user is asked a short series of questions designed to help them decide everything about their flower needs, starting with color and general style preferences and working all the way through to the various floral components that make a wedding or event complete. 

<h3>BUILDING OUT THE PERFECT EVENT</h3>
The tool is robust, but intuitive. Broken into easy to manage steps, users can see their flower plan take shape as they choose between a wide variety of designs for bouquets, table centers, and accompanying decorative elements.

The actual flowers to be used are dependent upon the season and event style, so product designs are presented as elegant sketches to convey style possibilities while still accommodating for an endless variety of finished products.

When the user has completed the survey, they are presented with a summary page outlining their style choices and selected products (with links to make adjustments).

At this point, they can move forward with their purchase or save their submission to be completed at a later date- the tool allows for an unlimited number of concurrent drafts that can be resumed and completed at any point.  



<h3>USING THE NEWEST TECHNOLOGY</h3>
The tool is built using the totally refactored Webform module for Drupal 8, which opens up endless possibility for custom integration to developers. Layered in behind the scenes is a custom date-picker tool that allows webmasters to block off selected dates through an administrative dashboard, as well as a handy proximity-based delivery calculator that helps estimate costs based on event location.